README.md, before:

RunSauce
========

Run many kinds of simple tests with any [Sauce Labs](https://saucelabs.com)
options.

This is probably mostly useful for people who work at
[Sauce](https://github.com/saucelabs).

## Requirements

RunSauce requires Node.js version 7.6 or greater, and NPM.

## Install

```bash
npm install -g runsauce
```

## Configure

RunSauce needs to know your Sauce credentials before it can do anything useful.
There's a handy interactive setup that will pre-populate a config file from
your environment variables if it can.

```bash
# configure with your username / access key
runsauce --setup
```

If you run RunSauce with `--setup` after this initial setup, you will be given the
ability to add servers to your config file. This can be useful for targeting
dev environments or even local environments.

## Basic Usage

```bash
# run a basic test with all the default options
runsauce

# check out all the options
runsauce --help
runsauce --tests
runsauce --shortcuts

# run a test with some custom options, like a guinea pig page test on chrome on
# linux
runsauce -t web_guinea -b c -p l

# do something craaazy, like run a test against a self-signed https cert
# on a custom dev server (assuming you have the config set) in Mac OS X 10.9
# with Safari 7, doing this 10 times with a concurrency of 5 tests at a time
runsauce -c dev -t selfsigned -p m9 -b s -v 7 -r 10 -n 5
```

## Running sets of tests

You can also specify complex sets of tests and platforms to run. First, create
a JSON file with your specification (notice the DSL you can use to restrict
combinations of platforms):

```
{
  "tests": [
    {
      "test": ["ios", "ios_hybrid", "ios_loc_serv"],
      "device": ["ip", "ipa|t=ios"],
      "version": ["6.1|a<=1.0", "7.0", "7.1", "8.0|a>=1.3.0", "8.1|a>=1.3.1"],
      "backendVersion": ["1.0", "1.1", "1.2", "1.3.4"]
    }, {
      "test": ["android_hybrid|v>=4.4", "selendroid"],
      "device": ["ae"],
      "version": ["2.3", "4.0", "4.2", "4.3", "4.4", "5.0|a>=1.2.2"],
      "backendVersion": ["1.0", "1.1", "1.2", "1.3.4"]
    }
  ],
  "config": "prod",
  "build": "appium-smoke-%t",
  "processes": 12
}
```

This will take each test set and run every possible combination of test type,
device name, platform version, and Appium version (but it will filter out
combinations deemed unsuitable by the restrictions---e.g., a platform version
of `"6.1|a<=1.0"` means that it will run on 6.1, but only in the case where
the Appium version is <= 1.0). It will run these tests against the `prod`
config, and give a build name of `appium-smoke-%t` (where `%t` is replaced by
a timestamp). Finally, it will run at a concurrency of 12! I can now run
this "build" with the following command:

```
./bin/runsauce -i my-build.json
```

(Note that you can also use the shortcut keys, e.g., `"t"` instead of `"test"`
and `"d"` instead of `"device"` and so on).

For a working example, see `demo-build.json`, included in this repo.

## Sauce Connect-based tests

Some tests require you to start the Sauce Connect Proxy on your system in
advance of running the test:

* `connect`
* `localname`

Note that if running the `localname` test (which is a test of non-"localhost"
local name proxying), you'll need to pass the `-l` or `--localname` option to
runsauce with the 'interesting' local name (e.g., `-l MyComputer.local`)

## Runsauce as a library

You can also build apps on top of runsauce. An example of this is in
`lib/matrix` (made available as `./bin/appium-matrix.js`. This app reads
a "build" configuration (see above), then after running the set of Appium tests
puts together a 4-dimensional support matrix with stability annotations. It
outputs to the command-line or as HTML. For example, let's say I have the
desire to see how Appium fares across Appium versions and iOS versions with
respect to the `safariIgnoreFraudWarning` capability. Then I can build
a "build" configuration as follows in, say, "fraud-build.js":

```
module.exports = {
  config: 'prod',
  build: 'appium-fraud-matrix-%t',
  processes: 20,
  name: "Appium iOS fraud warning capability test"
  tests: {
    backendVersion: ['1.0.0', '1.1.0', '1.2.4', '1.3.6', '1.3.7-beta'],
    version: ['6.1', '7.0', '7.1', '8.0|a>=1.3.6', '8.1|a>=1.3.6', '8.2|a>=1.3.7-beta'],
    test: 'web_fraud',
    browser: 's',
    device: ['ip', 'ipa']
  }
};
```

Now I can run the matrix app, specifying my input file and telling it to run
each combination 5 times so we can generate meaningful reliability statistics:

```
./bin/appium-matrix.js -d -r 5 -i fraud-build.js
```

Ultimately the app will output something like:

```
┌───────────────────┬───────────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────┬─────────┬───────────────────────────────┬─────────┐
│                   │ iOS 6.1                       │ iOS 7.0                       │ iOS 7.1                       │ iOS 8.0 │ iOS 8.1                       │ iOS 8.2 │
├───────────────────┼───────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────┼─────────┼───────────────────────────────┼─────────┤
│ Appium 1.0.0      │ ┌───────────┬──────┬────────┐ │ ✗                             │ ✗                             │ —       │ —                             │ —       │
│                   │ │ 0.92      │ iPad │ iPhone │ │                               │                               │         │                               │         │
│                   │ ├───────────┼──────┼────────┤ │                               │                               │         │                               │         │
│                   │ │ web_fraud │ ✓    │ 0.83   │ │                               │                               │         │                               │         │
│                   │ └───────────┴──────┴────────┘ │                               │                               │         │                               │         │
├───────────────────┼───────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────┼─────────┼───────────────────────────────┼─────────┤
│ Appium 1.1.0      │ ✓                             │ ✗                             │ ✗                             │ —       │ —                             │ —       │
├───────────────────┼───────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────┼─────────┼───────────────────────────────┼─────────┤
│ Appium 1.2.4      │ ✓                             │ ✓                             │ ┌───────────┬────────┬──────┐ │ —       │ —                             │ —       │
│                   │                               │                               │ │ 0.92      │ iPhone │ iPad │ │         │                               │         │
│                   │                               │                               │ ├───────────┼────────┼──────┤ │         │                               │         │
│                   │                               │                               │ │ web_fraud │ ✓      │ 0.83 │ │         │                               │         │
│                   │                               │                               │ └───────────┴────────┴──────┘ │         │                               │         │
├───────────────────┼───────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────┼─────────┼───────────────────────────────┼─────────┤
│ Appium 1.3.6      │ ✓                             │ ┌───────────┬────────┬──────┐ │ ✓                             │ ✗       │ ✓                             │ —       │
│                   │                               │ │ 0.83      │ iPhone │ iPad │ │                               │         │                               │         │
│                   │                               │ ├───────────┼────────┼──────┤ │                               │         │                               │         │
│                   │                               │ │ web_fraud │ ✓      │ 0.67 │ │                               │         │                               │         │
│                   │                               │ └───────────┴────────┴──────┘ │                               │         │                               │         │
├───────────────────┼───────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────┼─────────┼───────────────────────────────┼─────────┤
│ Appium 1.3.7-beta │ ┌───────────┬────────┬──────┐ │ ┌───────────┬────────┬──────┐ │ ✓                             │ ✗       │ ┌───────────┬────────┬──────┐ │ ✓       │
│                   │ │ 0.92      │ iPhone │ iPad │ │ │ 0.83      │ iPhone │ iPad │ │                               │         │ │ 0.92      │ iPhone │ iPad │ │         │
│                   │ ├───────────┼────────┼──────┤ │ ├───────────┼────────┼──────┤ │                               │         │ ├───────────┼────────┼──────┤ │         │
│                   │ │ web_fraud │ ✓      │ 0.83 │ │ │ web_fraud │ 0.83   │ 0.83 │ │                               │         │ │ web_fraud │ 0.83   │ ✓    │ │         │
│                   │ └───────────┴────────┴──────┘ │ └───────────┴────────┴──────┘ │                               │         │ └───────────┴────────┴──────┘ │         │
└───────────────────┴───────────────────────────────┴───────────────────────────────┴───────────────────────────────┴─────────┴───────────────────────────────┴─────────┘
```

This depiction gives us a good idea of which platforms are supported and how
reliable they are! Run `appium-matrix` for the list of parameters:

```
Options:
  -d, --detail  Show detail view of failing tests                [default: false]
  -i, --infile  JSON or JS file that exports a build definition  [required]  [default: null]
  -f, --file    File to store raw results                        [default: null]
  -r, --runs    Number of runs for each test                     [default: 3]
  -s, --skip    Skip actual test run and use results file        [default: false]
  -h, --html    Output html table instead of CLI table           [default: false]
```

Since matrix builds often take a long time to run, it can be useful to dump the
output into a format parseable by the tool, using the `-f` flag. Once this is
done, there are two further useful options:

```
appium-matrix -i build.js -f /my/output.json -s
```

The above will re-generate the CLI report from the output file rather than
actually re-running the matrix.

```
appium-matrix -i build.js -f /my/output.json -s -h > /my/output.hml
```

The above will generate a beautiful little HTML page that is much more readable
especially for large matrices or ones with the `-d` option to show detailed
information.

(For a set of example matrix build definition files, check out
`lib/matrix/builds`)

## Report results to Sumo Logic

If you have a SumoLogic collector endpoint set up, Runsauce will report
detailed information about test passes and failures, including timing
information, which can be used for later statistical purposes.

```bash
runsauce -i tests.json -j "https://endpoint1.collection.us2.sumologic.com/...."
```

## Building from source

```bash
git clone https://github.com/jlipps/runsauce.git
cd runsauce
npm install

# run the (admittedly very few) tests
npm test

# configure runsauce, if you haven't already
# ./bin/runsauce.js --setup

# use runsauce to run a test on sauce!
./bin/runsauce.js
```

# Containerized runsauce

* Build
```bash
docker build -t runsauce . --no-cache
```

* Run
```bash
docker run -e SAUCE_USERNAME=<sauce_username> -e SAUCE_ACCESS_KEY=<sauce_access_key> --rm -it runsauce -t web -v 11.2 -a 1.8.1 -d "iPhone Simulator"
```

Commit message:

# This is a combination of 24 commits. # This is the 1st commit message:
add iosAnimation test

# This is the commit message #2:

add a tests that simulates a fake manual session by running indefintely until we quit the test

# This is the commit message #3:

fix: make waits conform to wd api (#4)


# This is the commit message #4:

feat: Add --all flag to runsauce (#3)


# This is the commit message #5:

runsauce2

# This is the commit message #6:

Release 2.3.0

# This is the commit message #7:

docs: runsauce2
# This is the commit message #8:

Add new ContactManager.apk that works on Android 9+ (#5)


# This is the commit message #9:

Exclude Android 5.1 web tests because it has no Chrome (#6)


# This is the commit message #10:

Android smoke test no longer fails silently - passes (#7)


# This is the commit message #11:

Add matrices to runsauce

# This is the commit message #12:

EMUSIM-2887: Update README (#9)

* EMUSIM-2887: Instructions in README out of date

The README points the emusimer to an npm installed binary.
Tip of development is no longer in npm but in the bin dir of the repo

* EMUSIM-2887: Add missing runsauce step

The npm install is required to get runsauce to work

# This is the commit message #13:

add new ApiDemos apk for Android >= 10 (#10)


# This is the commit message #14:

Add matrices to runsauce

# This is the commit message #15:

Add more tests

# This is the commit message #16:

Tweak the matrices

# This is the commit message #17:

Remove logging

# This is the commit message #18:

Remove runsauce.json

# This is the commit message #19:

Add more python tests

# This is the commit message #20:

Add some more scripts

# This is the commit message #21:

More helper scripts

# This is the commit message #22:

update version

# This is the commit message #23:

first batch of browsers

# This is the commit message #24:

fix device list

README.md, after:

RunSauce
========

Run many kinds of simple tests with any [Sauce Labs](https://saucelabs.com)
options.

This is probably mostly useful for people who work at
[Sauce](https://github.com/saucelabs).

## Requirements

RunSauce requires Node.js version 7.6 or greater, and NPM.

## Install
To run runsauce use the runsauce.js implementation in bin of this repo
```bash
# In the runsauce directory
npm install
./bin/runsauce.js -i <your-matrix.json>
```

#### A deprecated method to install runsauce is documented below
```bash
npm install -g runsauce2 
```
Use at your peril
(note that it's `runsauce2` because this is a fork of the original [runsauce](https://github.com/jlipps/runsauce))

## Configure

RunSauce needs to know your Sauce credentials before it can do anything useful.
There's a handy interactive setup that will pre-populate a config file from
your environment variables if it can.

```bash
# configure with your username / access key
./bin/runsauce.js --setup
```

If you run RunSauce with `--setup` after this initial setup, you will be given the
ability to add servers to your config file. This can be useful for targeting
dev environments or even local environments.

## Basic Usage

```bash
# run a basic test with all the default options
./bin/runsauce.js

# check out all the options
./bin/runsauce.js --help
./bin/runsauce.js --tests
./bin/runsauce.js --shortcuts

# run a test with some custom options, like a guinea pig page test on chrome on
# linux
./bin/runsauce.js -t web_guinea -b c -p l

# do something craaazy, like run a test against a self-signed https cert
# on a custom dev server (assuming you have the config set) in Mac OS X 10.9
# with Safari 7, doing this 10 times with a concurrency of 5 tests at a time
./bin/runsauce.js -c dev -t selfsigned -p m9 -b s -v 7 -r 10 -n 5
```

## Running sets of tests

You can also specify complex sets of tests and platforms to run. First, create
a JSON file with your specification (notice the DSL you can use to restrict
combinations of platforms):

```
{
  "tests": [
    {
      "test": ["ios", "ios_hybrid", "ios_loc_serv"],
      "device": ["ip", "ipa|t=ios"],
      "version": ["6.1|a<=1.0", "7.0", "7.1", "8.0|a>=1.3.0", "8.1|a>=1.3.1"],
      "backendVersion": ["1.0", "1.1", "1.2", "1.3.4"]
    }, {
      "test": ["android_hybrid|v>=4.4", "selendroid"],
      "device": ["ae"],
      "version": ["2.3", "4.0", "4.2", "4.3", "4.4", "5.0|a>=1.2.2"],
      "backendVersion": ["1.0", "1.1", "1.2", "1.3.4"]
    }
  ],
  "config": "prod",
  "build": "appium-smoke-%t",
  "processes": 12
}
```

This will take each test set and run every possible combination of test type,
device name, platform version, and Appium version (but it will filter out
combinations deemed unsuitable by the restrictions---e.g., a platform version
of `"6.1|a<=1.0"` means that it will run on 6.1, but only in the case where
the Appium version is <= 1.0). It will run these tests against the `prod`
config, and give a build name of `appium-smoke-%t` (where `%t` is replaced by
a timestamp). Finally, it will run at a concurrency of 12! I can now run
this "build" with the following command:

```
./bin/runsauce -i my-build.json
```

(Note that you can also use the shortcut keys, e.g., `"t"` instead of `"test"`
and `"d"` instead of `"device"` and so on).

For a working example, see `demo-build.json`, included in this repo.

## Sauce Connect-based tests

Some tests require you to start the Sauce Connect Proxy on your system in
advance of running the test:

* `connect`
* `localname`

Note that if running the `localname` test (which is a test of non-"localhost"
local name proxying), you'll need to pass the `-l` or `--localname` option to
runsauce with the 'interesting' local name (e.g., `-l MyComputer.local`)

## Runsauce as a library

You can also build apps on top of runsauce. An example of this is in
`lib/matrix` (made available as `./bin/appium-matrix.js`. This app reads
a "build" configuration (see above), then after running the set of Appium tests
puts together a 4-dimensional support matrix with stability annotations. It
outputs to the command-line or as HTML. For example, let's say I have the
desire to see how Appium fares across Appium versions and iOS versions with
respect to the `safariIgnoreFraudWarning` capability. Then I can build
a "build" configuration as follows in, say, "fraud-build.js":

```
module.exports = {
  config: 'prod',
  build: 'appium-fraud-matrix-%t',
  processes: 20,
  name: "Appium iOS fraud warning capability test"
  tests: {
    backendVersion: ['1.0.0', '1.1.0', '1.2.4', '1.3.6', '1.3.7-beta'],
    version: ['6.1', '7.0', '7.1', '8.0|a>=1.3.6', '8.1|a>=1.3.6', '8.2|a>=1.3.7-beta'],
    test: 'web_fraud',
    browser: 's',
    device: ['ip', 'ipa']
  }
};
```

Now I can run the matrix app, specifying my input file and telling it to run
each combination 5 times so we can generate meaningful reliability statistics:

```
./bin/appium-matrix.js -d -r 5 -i fraud-build.js
```

Ultimately the app will output something like:

```
┌───────────────────┬───────────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────┬─────────┬───────────────────────────────┬─────────┐
│                   │ iOS 6.1                       │ iOS 7.0                       │ iOS 7.1                       │ iOS 8.0 │ iOS 8.1                       │ iOS 8.2 │
├───────────────────┼───────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────┼─────────┼───────────────────────────────┼─────────┤
│ Appium 1.0.0      │ ┌───────────┬──────┬────────┐ │ ✗                             │ ✗                             │ —       │ —                             │ —       │
│                   │ │ 0.92      │ iPad │ iPhone │ │                               │                               │         │                               │         │
│                   │ ├───────────┼──────┼────────┤ │                               │                               │         │                               │         │
│                   │ │ web_fraud │ ✓    │ 0.83   │ │                               │                               │         │                               │         │
│                   │ └───────────┴──────┴────────┘ │                               │                               │         │                               │         │
├───────────────────┼───────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────┼─────────┼───────────────────────────────┼─────────┤
│ Appium 1.1.0      │ ✓                             │ ✗                             │ ✗                             │ —       │ —                             │ —       │
├───────────────────┼───────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────┼─────────┼───────────────────────────────┼─────────┤
│ Appium 1.2.4      │ ✓                             │ ✓                             │ ┌───────────┬────────┬──────┐ │ —       │ —                             │ —       │
│                   │                               │                               │ │ 0.92      │ iPhone │ iPad │ │         │                               │         │
│                   │                               │                               │ ├───────────┼────────┼──────┤ │         │                               │         │
│                   │                               │                               │ │ web_fraud │ ✓      │ 0.83 │ │         │                               │         │
│                   │                               │                               │ └───────────┴────────┴──────┘ │         │                               │         │
├───────────────────┼───────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────┼─────────┼───────────────────────────────┼─────────┤
│ Appium 1.3.6      │ ✓                             │ ┌───────────┬────────┬──────┐ │ ✓                             │ ✗       │ ✓                             │ —       │
│                   │                               │ │ 0.83      │ iPhone │ iPad │ │                               │         │                               │         │
│                   │                               │ ├───────────┼────────┼──────┤ │                               │         │                               │         │
│                   │                               │ │ web_fraud │ ✓      │ 0.67 │ │                               │         │                               │         │
│                   │                               │ └───────────┴────────┴──────┘ │                               │         │                               │         │
├───────────────────┼───────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────┼─────────┼───────────────────────────────┼─────────┤
│ Appium 1.3.7-beta │ ┌───────────┬────────┬──────┐ │ ┌───────────┬────────┬──────┐ │ ✓                             │ ✗       │ ┌───────────┬────────┬──────┐ │ ✓       │
│                   │ │ 0.92      │ iPhone │ iPad │ │ │ 0.83      │ iPhone │ iPad │ │                               │         │ │ 0.92      │ iPhone │ iPad │ │         │
│                   │ ├───────────┼────────┼──────┤ │ ├───────────┼────────┼──────┤ │                               │         │ ├───────────┼────────┼──────┤ │         │
│                   │ │ web_fraud │ ✓      │ 0.83 │ │ │ web_fraud │ 0.83   │ 0.83 │ │                               │         │ │ web_fraud │ 0.83   │ ✓    │ │         │
│                   │ └───────────┴────────┴──────┘ │ └───────────┴────────┴──────┘ │                               │         │ └───────────┴────────┴──────┘ │         │
└───────────────────┴───────────────────────────────┴───────────────────────────────┴───────────────────────────────┴─────────┴───────────────────────────────┴─────────┘
```

This depiction gives us a good idea of which platforms are supported and how
reliable they are! Run `appium-matrix` for the list of parameters:

```
Options:
  -d, --detail  Show detail view of failing tests                [default: false]
  -i, --infile  JSON or JS file that exports a build definition  [required]  [default: null]
  -f, --file    File to store raw results                        [default: null]
  -r, --runs    Number of runs for each test                     [default: 3]
  -s, --skip    Skip actual test run and use results file        [default: false]
  -h, --html    Output html table instead of CLI table           [default: false]
```

Since matrix builds often take a long time to run, it can be useful to dump the
output into a format parseable by the tool, using the `-f` flag. Once this is
done, there are two further useful options:

```
appium-matrix -i build.js -f /my/output.json -s
```

The above will re-generate the CLI report from the output file rather than
actually re-running the matrix.

```
appium-matrix -i build.js -f /my/output.json -s -h > /my/output.hml
```

The above will generate a beautiful little HTML page that is much more readable
especially for large matrices or ones with the `-d` option to show detailed
information.

(For a set of example matrix build definition files, check out
`lib/matrix/builds`)

## Report results to Sumo Logic

If you have a SumoLogic collector endpoint set up, Runsauce will report
detailed information about test passes and failures, including timing
information, which can be used for later statistical purposes.

```bash
./bin/runsauce.js -i tests.json -j "https://endpoint1.collection.us2.sumologic.com/...."
```

## Building from source

```bash
git clone https://github.com/jlipps/runsauce.git
cd runsauce
npm install

# run the (admittedly very few) tests
npm test

# configure runsauce, if you haven't already
# ./bin/runsauce.js --setup

# use runsauce to run a test on sauce!
./bin/runsauce.js
```

# Containerized runsauce

* Build
```bash
docker build -t runsauce . --no-cache
```

* Run
```bash
docker run -e SAUCE_USERNAME=<sauce_username> -e SAUCE_ACCESS_KEY=<sauce_access_key> --rm -it runsauce -t web -v 11.2 -a 1.8.1 -d "iPhone Simulator"
```
